README.md, before:

# Python snippets for data cleaning
## About
A collection of python code snippets for cleaning and combining files from templates, combining and transforming large datasets, and cleaning large datasets. All snippets are sourced from a larger data cleaning and combination project- snippets use smaller datasets containing the root issue addressed in the snippet. All notebooks and reference data files are stored here for reference.

Template data cleaning category also includes a program to customize & combine template cleaning snippets in a Linux environment for easy use- coauthored with [David Vogel](https://github.com/davidvogelxyz).

## Snippets by category
Data import & export:
- [Import & export a single file to/from a certain file path](data-import-export-from-folder-singlefile/)
- [Import & combine multiple files from a certain file path](data-import-combine-from-folder-multifile/)
- [Clean & export files from one subfolder to another](data-clean-export-from-folder-multifile/)

Template data cleaning
- [Convert date to object, assign to each field, add to cleaned file name](date-to-column-filename/)
- [Combine split template with repeat columns into single dataframe](split-columns-combine/)
- [Drop columns in template not needed](keep-only-columns-needed/)
- [Standardize categorical data labels](standardize-data-labels/)
- [Template data cleaning Linux program](main.py)

Dataset cleaning: filtering
- [Remove fields based on string contents of one column](remove-fields-by-string-id/)

Commit message:

UPDATE: moved the `pdct` utility and relevant files into new repo
the `pdct` utility, and associated files, have all been moved into a new repo.

the URL for that repo is: https://github.com/DavidVogelxyz/dataframe-formatting-utility

README.md, after:

# Python snippets for data cleaning
## About
A collection of python code snippets for cleaning and combining files from templates, combining and transforming large datasets, and cleaning large datasets. All snippets are sourced from a larger data cleaning and combination project- snippets use smaller datasets containing the root issue addressed in the snippet. All notebooks and reference data files are stored here for reference.

Separately, my friend Dave has been working on a utility to perform multiple cleaning tasks within a single run of a `.py` file. That repo can be found [here](https://github.com/DavidVogelxyz/dataframe-formatting-utility).

## Snippets by category
Data import & export:
- [Import & export a single file to/from a certain file path](data-import-export-from-folder-singlefile/)
- [Import & combine multiple files from a certain file path](data-import-combine-from-folder-multifile/)
- [Clean & export files from one subfolder to another](data-clean-export-from-folder-multifile/)

Template data cleaning
- [Convert date to object, assign to each field, add to cleaned file name](date-to-column-filename/)
- [Combine split template with repeat columns into single dataframe](split-columns-combine/)
- [Drop columns in template not needed](keep-only-columns-needed/)
- [Standardize categorical data labels](standardize-data-labels/)

Dataset cleaning: filtering
- [Remove fields based on string contents of one column](remove-fields-by-string-id/)
